Cancer is a broad term. It describes the disease that results when cellular changes cause the uncontrolled growth and division of cells.

Some types of cancer cause rapid cell growth, while others cause cells to grow and divide at a slower rate.

Certain forms of cancer result in visible growths called tumors, while others, such as leukemia, do not.

Most of the body’s cells have specific functions and fixed lifespans. While it may sound like a bad thing, cell death is part of a natural and beneficial phenomenon called apoptosis.

A cell receives instructions to die so that the body can replace it with a newer cell that functions better. Cancerous cells lack the components that instruct them to stop dividing and to die.

As a result, they build up in the body, using oxygen and nutrients that would usually nourish other cells. Cancerous cells can form tumors, impair the immune system and cause other changes that prevent the body from functioning regularly.

Cancerous cells may appear in one area, then spread via the lymph nodes. These are clusters of immune cells located throughout the body.
There are many causes of cancer.

The causes and risk factors for cancer include Smoking cigarettes, heavy alcohol consumption, excess body weight, physical inactivity and poor nutrition.
Other causes of cancer are not preventable. Currently, the most significant unpreventable risk factor is age. According to the American Cancer Society, doctors in the U.S. diagnose 87 percent of cancer cases in people ages 50 years or older.

cancer treatment methods include:
Chemotherapy, Hormone therapy, Immunotherapy, Radiation therapy, Stem cell transplant and surgery are the cancer treatment approches or techniques.
Chemotherapy aims to kill cancerous cells with medications that target rapidly dividing cells.
Hormone therapy involves taking medications that change how certain hormones work or interfere with the body’s ability to produce them.
Immunotherapy uses medications and other treatments to boost the immune system and encourage it to fight cancerous cells.
Radiation therapy uses high-dose radiation to kill cancerous cells.
Surgery is often a part of a treatment plan when a person has a cancerous tumor.
The common Types of Cancers are Bladder,colon and rectal,Lung,Prostate,Breast,skin,endometrial,kidney,leukemia,liver,melanoma,pancreatic and thyroid.

